---
title: '@nuxt/eslint-config'
---

Shared ESLint config for Nuxt 3 projects. Unopinionated by default, but customizable.

:::callout{icon="i-ph-lightbulb-duotone"}
We recommand to use directly the [ESLint Module](/packages/module) that will provide project-aware ESLint config and Nuxt DevTools integration on top of this config.
:::

::read-more
---
to: https://github.com/nuxt/eslint/tree/main/packages/eslint-config
color: gray
icon: i-simple-icons-github
---
Source code on GitHub
::


## Config Formats

This package provides two different ESLint configs:

- [Flat Config](#flat-config-format) - Customizable, future-proof, config for the [new flat config format](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/configure/configuration-files-new).
- [Legacy Config](#legacy-config-format) - Unopinionated, Static, config for the legacy `.eslintrc` format. 

## Flat Config Format

The flat config format is the future of ESLint and is designed to be more flexible and project-aware. The entry `@nuxt/eslint-plugin/flat` provides a factory function to create a project-aware ESLint config for Nuxt 3 projects. Unopinionated by default, but customizable by passing options to the factory function. Used by [`@nuxt/eslint`](/packages/module) module to generate project-aware ESLint config.

1. Install this package and `eslint` in your `devDependencies`.

```bash
npm i -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
yarn add -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
pnpm add -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
```

2. Import the config factory function from `@nuxt/eslint-plugin/flat` entry in your `eslint.config.js`:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import createConfigForNuxt from '@nuxt/eslint-plugin/flat'

export default createConfigForNuxt({
  // options here
})
```


You might also want to add a script entry to your `package.json:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "eslint ."
  }
}
```

## Legacy Config Format

The legacy config configures for TypeScript and Vue integrations for ESLint. It is unopinionated and static, that does not contains stylistic rules nor project-aware settings.

1. Install this package and `eslint` in your `devDependencies`.

```bash
npm i -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
yarn add -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
pnpm add -D @nuxt/eslint-plugin eslint
```

2. Extend the default Nuxt config by creating an `.eslintrc.cjs`:

```js
module.exports = {
  root: true,
  extends: ["@nuxt/eslint-plugin"],
};
```

You might also want to add a script entry to your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "eslint ."
  }
}
```
